("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(screams)
(sobbing)
- [Narrator] The first
frost of winter came.
And Ronja and Birk
knew that it was time
to leave the bear's
cave and go home.
Mattis' fort and Borka's Keep
were filled with
an overwhelming joy
not felt since long
before they had left.
(shivering)
(sneezes)
- I'm starving.
(door crashes)
(man screaming)
- Pelje, you're coming home.
- Chief, you're here!
- You Borka robbers,
come with me too!
- Really?
(horse neighs)
(screams)
- Mommy.
(upbeat ambient music)
(laughing)
- You know, Lill-Klippen
didn't think
that Pelje would survive
in the sheriff's prison.
He was so shocked to see him.
He wasn't sure if it was really
him or his ghost. (laughs)
Mind you, it doesn't take
much to scare Lill-Klippen.
- On our side, you
should have seen Borka.
He couldn't believe
that Mattis had rescued
two Borka robbers as
well as his own man.
- And now, 'cause Mattis helped
them all escape the dungeon,
the sheriff's even more
determined than
ever to catch him.
He's got every soldier looking.
Remember the other day,
back at the bear's cave,
when it was raining?
It felt like the woods were
really scary and frightening.
But not anymore.
Now the forest gives
me nothing but joy.
And that's because I know that
I'm going to be warm right down
to my toes when I come home.
If I had to sleep shivering
in a cold cave every night,
I might not feel the same way.
- Yes, that's true.
Now, when I get home
from the forest,
I go straight to the
fire at Borka's Keep
and curl up like
a little rabbit.
You know what?
Undis and Borka
were actually glad
when I came back home to them.
I wouldn't have believed
they cared so much about me.
It is nice to be back home.
- Yes.
You should live with your
family as long as you like.
Well, until the spring.
(laughing)
Pelje!
- [Pelje] Hey, Ronja!
- Of course.
It's a fine thing.
That little snake can
come and go as he pleases.
I invited him to come
home with us, after all.
But, it's a relief now,
not to have to stare at that,
that little red head
of his all the time.
- Joen.
Here.
(laughing)
- Welcome back Pelje!
No one stops my robbers.
- Right!
- To us!
- We are the finest
robbers in the forest.
- That's right, we're the best!
- I rescued Pelje
from the dungeon
and taught the sheriff a lesson.
- What was it? (hiccups)
- If you steal my robbers,
I'll steal 'em back. (laughs)
- [Robber] No one
can beat our chief!
- [Robber] The sheriff's
no match for Mattis!
- [Robber] We'll follow
our chief anywhere!
- [Robber] Mattis
you're the best!
- [Noddle-Pete] And that's why
we've got soldiers everywhere.
Swarming through the
woods like flies.
And you know, the sheriff
will win in the end.
I'm telling you.
This is not a fight you
can win by yourself.
But if you and Borka reconcile,
and create a single
strong band of robbers,
well you might just be
able to handle the sheriff,
and all his men.
Now if you and Borka
keep fighting each other
over the treasure,
like wolves fighting
over morsels of flesh,
you can forget
beating the sheriff.
You're dead meat.
- Well you certainly
like to speak your mind,
don't you old man?
Of course, in a
way you're right.
Tell me.
Who would be the chief of
this great new robber clan?
Did you think of that?
Borka, eh?
Listen, I, Mattis, am
the strongest, mightiest,
toughest robber chieftain in
all the mountains and forests!
And I intend to remain so!
But we can't be sure Borka
will understand that.
- Show him then.
Show him who is in charge.
You should be able to win.
A duel with him would be easy.
After all, you're built
like a great strong ox.
And once you win,
you'll become chieftain
of the single, big robber
band, and lead everyone!
And then instead of hiding
from the sheriff
and his soldiers,
you'll be able to give
'em hell every day.
How 'bout that?
Soon they'll grow tired
of hunting us robbers, eh?
- At last you're
talking some sense.
(laughing)
- I disagree!
I think that the most cunning
and clever idea of all
would be to stop robbing.
(robbers gasp)
(laughs)
- What, don't look so shocked.
I've always thought so.
(mixed chatter)
- Maybe your little
Ronja has got a point.
Maybe we should stop robbing.
But I'm too old, feeble,
to drum that into
your thick head.
- How dare you?!
You, who have been a robber
since my father's day.
How could you say that?!
Stop robbing, are you mad?!
What would we live
on then, nuts?
- Have you ever noticed
there are people in this
world who may not be robbers,
and yet they still
manage to live very well.
They somehow provide
for their families
without the sheriff
hunting them all the time.
- Maybe.
But I don't know
how they do that.
- There are many ways a man
could make an honest living.
Some I could teach you.
But, oh no.
You'll never quit
the robber's life.
Not until the sheriff catches
you and we're all strung up.
Which is something
I'd rather avoid.
That's why at some point,
I'm gonna tell Ronja something.
A nice little secret.
- Secret?
- (chuckles) That's right.
I'll tell Ronja
so she won't be left helpless
after you're locked up.
- That's not going to happen!
Now be quiet!
- [Noddle-Pete] Yeah yeah yeah,
be quiet, go to bed,
just 'cause I'm right.
(exciting ambient music)
- [Narrator] Several days later.
- Mattis!
This is serious!
(horse neighs)
- Where do you get the
nerve, summoning me?
- I have some bad news, Mattis.
If you value your life,
do not poke your nose
into the woods today.
Soldiers have set an ambush.
They shot one of my
men with an arrow.
- Wait, what's gotten into you
that you would tell me that?
You think I'm some kinda fool?
- Well you did
rescue two of my men.
So I'm rendering a
service in return.
You could say I owe you.
(laughs)
- Well Borka.
It seems we'll have to
teach the sheriff's soldiers
to mind their manners, huh?
Once we get our hands on.
We?
(mischievous music)
- [Borka] What?
You're acting very strange.
- Perhaps we should, maybe,
join forces once and for all?
- For once in your life you
said something quite clever.
One strong band of robbers.
That works! (laughs)
One united band of robbers
under one strong chief.
Mattis, I know the
perfect man for the job.
And that is me!
(laughs)
- I think you'll find
the perfect chief
- Yes?
would be this man!
(rooster crows)
(mixed arguing)
- Out!
And don't come back until
I've called you back!
- I don't want to
watch them fighting
or battering each other.
- Don't worry, they
won't allow you there.
Women and children must keep
away from wild beast matches.
The old custom must be obeyed.
- Wild beast matches,
that's perfect.
You should've been here earlier.
It was a wild beast
stand alright,
the men shouting and screaming.
- Well I can tell you
it's been the same for us,
in Borka's Keep.
Undis has been
shouting at the men
all day to drive
them out. (giggling)
(grunting)
- Borka had better watch out.
Undis won't recognize
him after this!
- Always save the bragging for
when you're riding back home.
That's what my mother
used to say to me.
- But Noddle-Pete,
you're going to be
at the match, right?
I know you've been feeling
unwell, but a wild beast match!
That will stir your heart.
Come on, old man.
You can ride on my horse.
Let's go to the
fight of the century.
(horse hooves clopping)
Woah, woah.
Well then, here goes.
(exciting music)
Borka!
I thought you'd run
away like a baby.
Are you ready?
- I'm actually quite surprised
to see you turn up here, Mattis.
I was worried.
Thought you might lock
yourself up in your fort,
too scared to come out.
Back when you were a boy,
whenever you were upset
or things didn't go your way,
you used to shut yourself in
your room and sulk like a baby.
- Shut up!
Why don't you stop talking
and prepare yourself
for a beating!
(clears throat)
- And now, under the rules
passed through the generations,
we shall begin the match.
In a wild beast match,
every kind of attack
and dirty hold is allowed.
You may break and
bore, rip and tear,
bite and scratch.
- Throw him off the cliff!
- Mattis, tear him apart!
- Crush him, Borka!
- However.
You may not kick
between the legs.
Now both sides approach.
- If you wanna run,
now's your chance.
- Oh I'm not going anywhere,
but you'll wish I had.
Now, say goodbye to
all your men and horses
before I take it all.
And that's a promise.
- Well it would only
be delight of me
to promise you the same.
(gong tolls)
- Silly men.
Good for nothing,
every last one of them.
(gong tolls)
- Birk, it's the signal.
- Well, let's see what happens.
(crowd cheering)
- [Narrator] Noddle-Pete
had secretly hoped for this
for some time.
Mattis and Borka meeting
in a wild beast's match.
(exciting music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"One Band of Robbers".
Don't miss it!
(calm ambient music)